hi I'm Alan Resnick editor large for dog
fancy in dog world magazines and
editor-in-chief of dogs and review I'll
be your host for the smart owner's guide
history brief of the dachshund but first
let me introduce my friend Jackson a
miniature smooth dachshund dachshunds
come in three different coat types the
smooth the long-haired and the wire here
each coat variety comes in two sizes the
standard which weighs in at 16 to 32
pounds and the miniature which is 11
pounds or under and dachshunds are
available in a rainbow of colors from
solid red and cream to two tones like
the black hoods and and Jackson's
chocolate and tan to multicolored
patched patterns called dapple
dachshunds offer you lots of choice with
a size coat and color to suit every
taste the dachshund originated in
Germany dachshund is German for badger
dog and the breeds courage tenacity and
agility served it well hunt in its
quarry above and below ground
illustrations dating from the 15th
through the 17th centuries show Badgers
hunted by dogs with elongated bodies
short legs and hound like ears some had
the bent front legs of the basset hound
some had the heads of terriers and some
had indications of smooth and long coats
harsh wiry Terrier coats were bred in to
protect the dogs against briars and
thorns in time the breed was adapted for
hunting other gaining smaller dogs were
produced to pursue foxes weasels and
rabbits although few dachshunds are
required to hunt today understanding the
function origin and development of the
breed helps us appreciate its
streamlined proportions and stubborn
independence fuel trials and earthdome
tests allowed dachshunds to prove they
have maintained their keen instincts and
go to ground hunting ability with its
history of bolting after cranky vermin
you can see why your busy little
dachshund
rather be excavating tunnels in your
backyard
than lounging on your sofa the dachshund
displays courage with a capital C and
it's why any display of shyness is
labeled a serious fall in the dachshund
greed standard
you